The President:
Today I'd like to talk with you
about a subject that I know is
on everybody's mind, and that's
the state of our economy.
Yesterday, we received a report
on our Gross Domestic Product.
That's a measure of our
overall economic performance.
The report showed that in the
first few months of this year,
the recession we faced when I
took office was even deeper than
anyone thought at the time.
It told us how close
we were to the edge.
But it also revealed that
in the last few months,
the economy has done measurably
better than expected.
And many economists suggest
that part of this progress is
directly attributable
to the Recovery Act.
This and the other difficult but
important steps that we've taken
over the last six months have helped put the brakes on this recession.
We took unprecedented action to
stem the spread of foreclosures
by helping responsible
homeowners stay in their homes
and pay their mortgages.
We helped revive the credit
markets and open up loans for
families and small businesses.
And we enacted a Recovery Act
that puts tax cuts directly into
the pockets of middle-class
families and small businesses;
extended unemployment insurance
and health insurance for folks
who have lost their jobs; provided relief to struggling
states to prevent layoffs of teachers and police officers;
and made investments that are
putting people back to work
rebuilding and renovating roads,
bridges, schools, and hospitals.
Now, I realize that none of this
is much comfort for Americans
who are still out of work or
struggling to make ends meet.
And when we receive our
monthly job report next week,
it's likely to show that we are
continuing to lose far too many
jobs in this country.
As far as I'm concerned, we will
not have a recovery as long as
we keep losing jobs.
And I won't rest until every
American who wants a job can find one.
But history shows that you need
to have economic growth before
you have job growth.
And the report yesterday on our
economy is an important sign
that we're headed in
the right direction.
Business investment, which had
been plummeting in the past few
months, is showing
signs of stabilizing.
This means that eventually,
businesses will start growing
and hiring again.
And that's when it will really
feel like a recovery to the
American people.
This won't happen overnight.
As I've said before, it will
take many more months to fully
dig ourselves out
of a recession --
a recession that we've now
learned was even deeper than
anyone thought.
But I'll continue
to work every day,
and take every step necessary,
to make sure that happens.
I also want to make sure that we
don't return to an economy where
our growth is based on inflated
profits and maxed-out credit
cards -- because that
doesn't create a lot of jobs.
Even as we rescue this economy,
we must work to rebuild it
stronger than before.
We've got to build a new
foundation strong enough to
withstand future economic storms
and support lasting prosperity.
Next week, I'll be talking about
that new foundation when I head
to Elkhart county in Indiana -- a city hit hard not only by the
economic crisis of recent months but by the broader economic
changes of recent decades.
For communities like
Elkhart to thrive,
we need to recapture the spirit
of innovation that has always
moved America forward.
That means once again
having the best-educated,
highest skilled
workforce in the world.
That means a health care system
that makes it possible for
entrepreneurs to innovate and
businesses to compete without
being saddled with
skyrocketing insurance costs.
That means leading the world
in building a new clean energy
economy with the potential to
unleash a wave of innovation --
and economic growth -- while ending our dependence on foreign oil.
And that means investing in the
research and development that
will produce the
technologies of the future --
which in turn will help create
the industries and jobs of the future.
Innovation has been essential to
our prosperity in the past --
and it will be essential to
our prosperity in the future.
But it's only by building a new
foundation that we will once
again harness that incredible
generative capacity of the
American people.
All it takes are the policies
to tap that potential --
to ignite that spark of
creativity and ingenuity --
which has always been at the
heart of who we are and how we succeed.
At a time when folks are
experiencing real hardship,
after years in which we've
seen so many fail to take
responsibility for our
collective future,
it's important to keep our
eyes fixed on that horizon.
Every day, I hear from Americans
who are feeling firsthand the
pain of this recession; these
are folks who share their
stories with me in letters
and at town hall meetings;
folks who remain in my mind and
on my agenda each and every day.
I know that there are countless
families and businesses
struggling to just hang on
until this storm passes.
But I also know that if we do
the things we know we must,
this storm will pass.
And it will yield
a brighter day.